prometheus.operator.podmonitors component (#2688)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.operator.podmonitors.md

> ---

Reviewer: I don't think we have to put PodMonitor/PodMonitors or Pod/Pods in code backticks; that might make this render a little more nicely in the UI.

title: prometheus.operator.podmonitors
labels:
  stage: beta
---

# prometheus.operator.podmonitors

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/stability/beta.md" source="agent" >}}

`prometheus.operator.podmonitors` discovers [PodMonitor](https://prometheus-operator.dev/docs/operator/api/#monitoring.coreos.com/v1.PodMonitor) resources in your kubernetes cluster and scrape the targets they reference. This component performs three main functions:

> 1. Discover `PodMonitor` resources from your kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Discover `PodMonitor` resources from your Kubernetes cluster.
```

2. Discover `Pods` in your cluster that match those `PodMonitors`.
3. Scrape metrics from those `Pods`, and forward them to a receiver.

> The default configuration assumes the agent is running inside a kubernetes cluster, and uses the in-cluster config to access the kubernetes api. It can be run from outside the cluster by supplying connection info in the `client` block, but network level access to pods is required to scrape metrics from them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default configuration assumes the agent is running inside a Kubernetes cluster, and uses the in-cluster config to access the Kubernetes API. It can be run from outside the cluster by supplying connection info in the `client` block, but network level access to pods is required to scrape metrics from them.
```

## Usage

```river
prometheus.operator.podmonitors "LABEL" {
    forward_to = RECEIVER_LIST
}
```

## Arguments

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`forward_to` | `list(MetricsReceiver)` | List of receivers to send scraped metrics to. | | yes
`namespaces` | `list(string)` | List of namespaces to search for PodMonitor resources. If not specified, all namespaces will be searched. || no

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `prometheus.operator.podmonitors`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------

> client | [client][] | Configures Kubernetes client used to find podmonitors. | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client | [client][] | Configures Kubernetes client used to find PodMonitors. | no
```

> client > basic_auth | [basic_auth][] | Configure basic_auth for authenticating to the endpoint. | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client > basic_auth | [basic_auth][] | Configure basic authentication to the Kubernetes API. | no
```

> client > authorization | [authorization][] | Configure generic authorization to the endpoint. | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client > authorization | [authorization][] | Configure generic authorization to the Kubernetes API. | no
```

> client > oauth2 | [oauth2][] | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating to the endpoint. | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client > oauth2 | [oauth2][] | Configure OAuth2 for authenticating to the Kubernetes API. | no
```

> client > oauth2 > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client > oauth2 > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the Kubernetes API. | no
```

> client > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the endpoint. | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client > tls_config | [tls_config][] | Configure TLS settings for connecting to the Kubernetes API. | no
```

selector | [selector][] | Label selector for which `PodMonitors` to discover. | no
selector > match_expression | [match_expression][] | Label selector expression for which `PodMonitors` to discover. | no

The `>` symbol indicates deeper levels of nesting. For example, `client >
basic_auth` refers to a `basic_auth` block defined
inside a `client` block.

[client]: #client-block
[basic_auth]: #basic_auth-block
[authorization]: #authorization-block
[oauth2]: #oauth2-block
[tls_config]: #tls_config-block
[selector]: #selector-block
[match_expression]: #match_expression-block

### client block

> The `client` block configures the Kubernetes client used discover PodMonitors. If the `client` block isn't provided, the default in-cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `client` block configures the Kubernetes client used to discover PodMonitors. If the `client` block isn't provided, the default in-cluster
```

`enable_http2` | `bool` | Whether HTTP2 is supported for requests. | `true` | no

 At most one of the following can be provided:
 - [`bearer_token` argument][client].
 - [`bearer_token_file` argument][client].
 - [`basic_auth` block][basic_auth].
 - [`authorization` block][authorization].
 - [`oauth2` block][oauth2].

### basic_auth block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/basic-auth-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### authorization block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/authorization-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### oauth2 block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/oauth2-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### tls_config block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/tls-config-block.md" source="agent" >}}

### selector block

The `selector` block describes a Kubernetes label selector for `PodMonitors`.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`match_labels` | `map(string)` | Label keys and values used to discover resources. | `{}` | no

> When the `match_labels` argument is empty, all resources will be matched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `match_labels` argument is empty, all PodMonitor resources will be matched.
```

### match_expression block

> The `match_expression` block describes a Kubernetes label match expression for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `match_expression` block describes a Kubernetes label matcher expression for
```

`PodMonitors` discovery.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`key` | `string` | The label name to match against. | | yes
`operator` | `string` | The operator to use when matching. | | yes
`values`| `list(string)` | The values used when matching. | | no

The `operator` argument must be one of the following strings:

* `"In"`
* `"NotIn"`
* `"Exists"`
* `"DoesNotExist"`

> `selector` can make use of multiple
> `match_expression` inner blocks which are treated as AND clauses.

Reviewer: I found this a little hard to understand, what about this:

```suggestion
If there are multiple `match_expressions` blocks inside of a `selector` block, they are combined together with AND clauses. 
```

## Exported fields

> `prometheus.operator.podmonitors` does not export any fields. It will forward all metrics it scrapes to the receiver configures with the `forward_to` argument.

Reviewer: Use present tense:

```suggestion
`prometheus.operator.podmonitors` does not export any fields. It forwards all metrics it scrapes to the receiver configures with the `forward_to` argument.
```

## Component health

> `prometheus.operator.podmonitors` is reported as unhealthy if any of its critical components fails during initialization (discovery manager, informers).

Reviewer: I'd like for this to not reference as much internal names, since those can change easily:

```suggestion
`prometheus.operator.podmonitors` is reported as unhealthy when given an invalid configuration, Prometheus components fail to initialize, or the connection to the Kubernetes API could not be established properly.
```
